# XGBoost-Stress-Strain
A program written in python named “XGBoost-Stress-Strain” that employs the XGBoost regression technique to estimate the stress-strain at various strain speeds of open-cell Al-based metal matrix composites

# Requirements
XGBoost-Stress-Strain requires Python 3.6 or higher to run. It also requires the following Python packages: pandas, numpy, xgboost, scikit-learn, matplotlib, contextlib, and patheffects. These packages can be installed using pip or conda commands.

# Installation
To install XGBoost-Stress-Strain, download or clone the GitHub repository at https://github.com/user/XGBoost-Stress-Strain. The repository contains the following files:

XGBoost_Stress_Strain.py: The main Python script that runs the software.

# Input
C_0.01_stress-strain_data.xlsx: The Excel file containing the stress-strain data for open-cell AlSi10Mg material at strain rate 0.01.
SC_0.01_stress-strain_data.xlsx: The Excel file containing the stress-strain data for open-cell AlSi10Mg-SiC composite at strain rate 0.01.
C_0.001_stress-strain_data.xlsx: The Excel file containing the stress-strain data for open-cell AlSi10Mg material at strain rate 0.001.
SC_0.001_stress-strain_data.xlsx: The Excel file containing the stress-strain data for open-cell AlSi10Mg-SiC composite at strain rate 0.001.
Usage
To run XGBoost-Stress-Strain, navigate to the directory where the files are located and execute the following command in a terminal or command prompt:

python XGBoost_Stress_Strain.py

The software will then perform hyperparameter tuning, train and evaluate the XGBoost model, plot the results, calculate and save the performance metrics and descriptive statistics.

# Output
The output files generated by XGBoost-Stress-Strain are:

pred_stress-strain_c_multi.png: The png file containing the plot of the actual and predicted stress-strain values as a function of stress percentage for each dataset.
pred_stress-strain_multi.xlsx: The Excel file containing the actual and predicted stress-strain values for the test and validation sets for each dataset.
stress-strain_performance_metrics.txt: The text file containing the performance metrics of the XGBoost models for each dataset.
statistics_stress-strain.xlsx: The Excel file containing the descriptive statistics of the actual and predicted stress-strain values for each dataset.

# License
XGBoost-Stress-Strain is licensed under the MIT License. The LICENSE file contains more details.

